# Internationalization

Directus is a platform created and used by developers all over the world. Therefore it's quite important to make it accessible in as many languages as possible. Below we outline the breadth of multilingual support within Directus.

## Schema Translations

One of the key concpets of Directus is [database mirroring](/what-is-directus.md#database-mirroring). Since your database schema (and therefore the Directus schema) are dynamic, we can't include those in our translation files. Instead, we've created a JSON translation options at the Collection and Field level. This allows admins to translate their database architecture for App users.

## Multilingual API

Once you have your multilingual content in the database, you can then fetch it using the [API's `lang` parameter](/api/reference.html#language).

:::warning API
For consistency, the API does not use schema translations. All data is returned with the database collection/field names as keys.
:::

## Multilingual App

Directus supports internationalization across the entire application. All collections, fields, and App text can be offered in any number of languages. This section describes how the different areas of the app handle multilingual support. The app uses [locale files](https://github.com/directus/app/tree/master/src/lang/locales) for all text in the core codebase. Additionally, we've built our extension system in the same way so that they each interface, page, and layout has self-contained translation files.

::: tip Contributing New Languages
One of the easiest and most helpful contributions you can make to Directus is adding support for another locale. Anyone can do it in three simple steps:

1. Copy the content of the current [English locale file](https://github.com/directus/app/blob/master/src/lang/locales/en-US.js)
2. Create a new file in the [App's `/src/lang/locales` directory](https://github.com/directus/app/tree/master/src/lang/locales) using the [ISO language tag](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_localisation) name (eg: `en-US.md`)
3. Paste in the English from Step 1 and translate the strings (everything in quotes)

That's it! Just save that file and send us a Pull Request. If everything looks good we'll merge it in and mention you in the release notes!
:::

### Application Text

The core codebase uses the [vue-i18n](https://github.com/kazupon/vue-i18n) plugin to manage the translations across the platform. The language files and the init code are located in the `/src/lang/` folder of the app repo. The plugin contains a [bunch of methods](https://kazupon.github.io/vue-i18n/) to render these translations.

The one that is used most often is `$t`:

```vue
<p>{{ $t('collections') }}</p>
```

### Translations in Extensions

Extensions can provide their own translations to extend those available within the core app. The `meta.json` file of each extension has a `translation` key that allows you to add new translations for use in the system.

```json
"translation": {
  "en-US": {
    "color": "Color",
    "input": "Input",
    "input_comment": "The unit in which the user will enter the data",
    "output": "Output",
    "output_comment": "The unit in which the data gets saved to the DB",
    "format": "Format",
    "format_comment": "Show value as color swatch",
    "palette": "Palette",
    "palette_comment": "Add color options as hex values",
    "palette_only": "Palette Only",
    "palette_only_comment": "Only allow the user to pick from the palette",
    "allow_alpha": "Allow alpha",
    "allow_alpha_comment": "Allow values with an alpha channel"
  }
}
```

The translations in extensions are namespaced to avoid conflicts between packages (/ the main app). The namespace is `<ext-type>-<name>-<string>`. The above example is of the color interface. To use those translations, you have to use `$t('interfaces-color-palette_only')`.

You can even use the translations in the `meta.json` to translate values _in_ that same `meta.json` key. So meta! This is especially useful to add translatable names for the extension and its options.

## Content Translations

Directus uses a `translations` interface to allow for manaing content in as many languages as needed. Instead of simply creating new fields for each language, this interface stores translations relationally so your forms are not muddled with duplicate fields for each language. This also means that language-agnostic data such as dates or toggles can remain on the parent item.

:::tip Custom Interfaces
Our interface system is modular and extensible you can easily [create custom interfaces](/extensions/interfaces.md) with the `translation` field type.
:::